[BLANK_AUDIO]
Markdown is a really useful language for
creating documents without having to deal
with
a lot of the overhead and kind
of complications of using standard markup
languages.
The idea behind Markdown is that it's
a, you know, it's a simplified markup
language.
And it really, the, the goal is to, to
allow you to focus on just writing
your content and not have to worry about
things like tags or other things like
that.
And so Markdown, you'll notice, is very
simple.
And we use it a lot here.
All of the slides for the course are
written in Markdown And a nice thing
about Markdown is that it's very easy to
integrate it with Rcode, and other
programming languages.
So, in this lecture I'm just going to talk
about the very basics of Markdown.
But of course it, beyond the basics
actually there's not a whole lot.
So that's what makes Markdown so, so nice.
And then once I'll just talk a little bit
about kind of the basic aspects and give,
give you a few pointers on kind of where
you can go to learn about more.
So,
so just to start off with, Markdown is
a text to HTML conversion tool for web
writers.
Markdown allows you to write easy, using
an easy to use, read,
easy to write, plain text format and then
convert to structurally valid XHTML.
So the idea is that, so the, John Gruber,
the creator of Markdown, wanted people
to be able to focus on writing their
content, and not other kind of aspects.
And so, the basic syntax for Markdown is
fairly simple.
For, so,
you can you can format text, for example
with italics
using the asterisks here and then the text
will be italicized.
You can do things like create bold face
with the,
with the double asterisk and the text will
appear bold.
You can create headings.
There are different sizes, so if you're
familiar with
HTML you can think of this as H1, H2, H3.
So the two hashes, this is a secondary
heading.
The three hashes is a tertiary heading.
And then a single hash, which I didn't put
here
is a, is like a main heading, a primary
heading.
And so you can see that there are
different sizes here.
You can create very simple unordered lists
by putting
a little indicator there, like a hyphen or
an asterisk.
It doesn't really matter what the the
character is that you
use there as long as it's kind of
consistent across the list.
So you can create an unordered list like
this by
just just starting it right away, there's
no other formatting element.
You can create an ordered list here by
just doing one, two, and three.
And the, and, and the truth is actually,
although it's a little, it's not
immediately clear here
the numbering doesn't have to actually be
in order.
As long as you use a number as the kind of
character that, kind
of, that indents the line it will cr-, the
Markdown will create an ordered list.
And so, if you decide that oh, you know,
you want to stick something in
between one and two, you don't have to
renumber every element on the list.
You can just stick another item there
under the first item.
And it could be another one, or it could
be four, it could be
any number, the numbers don't have to be
in order, but when you process
the document Markdown will automatically
order the list in the right way.
You can of course put links into a
document,
this is very important if you're creating
web documents.
And there are two ways to create links.
The first way I've got here puts the text
in square
brackets, and then immediately following
that puts the URL in parenthesis.
So, here I can see Johns Hopkins Bloomberg
School of Public Health.
And and the URL is right next to it, and
then Download R with the R website right
next to that.
And so and then it'll be formatted in an
HTML
document in the usual way.
The text will be highlighted, and
underlined.
The other way to to create links in a
Markdown
document is to put the, again, the text in
square brackets.
And then, and right next to it in square
brackets put
a number which is going to be like an
identifier for that link.
And then later on, perhaps at the bottom
of the document you
can put the actual URL for for the length
that you meant.
So, number one here is for R
bloggers and at the bottom of the document
I might
put a number one and then the R bloggers
URL.
And then the second link here is for
Simply Statistics,
so for number two I put the Simply
Statistics URL.
The basic idea with this type of linking
is that it makes
the text in your document a little bit
cleaner and easier to read.
Especially if you have very long URL's.
And you, and you don't necessarily want to
put all these really
long URL's in the document so it makes it
hard to read.
This makes it a little bit easier to read,
while your
editing the document and puts all the
links down at the bottom.
Lastly new lines can be created in the
text document by
just putting a double space at the end of
a line.
So I just do first line, second line like
this with just, with no space after the
first line.
All the lines will run together like that.
But if I put two spaces after the first
line then
you'll get a kind of a new line put in
between.
So just the, that's going to be just an
easy gotcha, that
can be the people who newly come into
Markdown will often discover.
So that's just a really,
really quick overview of Markdown.
Here's some basic resources of the
official Markdown documentation on, on
Jon-,
John Grubers website, is very easy to
read, it's very, it's relatively short.
You'll be able to learn it within minutes.
You already know most of it just by
readin-, by looking at this lecture.
And then, Github has its own kind of
Markdown flavor, with a few kind of
enhancements.
So if you're going to be using Github and
documenting things in
Github it might be useful to check out
their Markdown guide.